The commission oversees a 10-year-old salmon treaty between the U.S.
and Canada.
On Wednesday, Alaska officials will try to persuade a federal court judge in Seattle to lift a temporary restraining order she imposed on the fishery earlier this month.
In a preliminary decision, the judge agreed with Canada, Oregon, and Washington that Alaska's harvest violates the terms of the U.S.-Canada treaty.
In Wednesday's hearing, she'll decide whether to lift the restraining order or issue an injunction.
Alaska officials will challenge her jurisdiction in the case.
They say SAMA disputes should be resolved through the treaty process, not the courts.
If Alaska loses, it vows to take the case to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
For National Public Radio, I'm Paula Dobbin in Juneau.
The conference board today reported little change in consumer confidence in August.
Confidence rose briskly in July but fell slightly in August.
Improved consumer confidence is considered crucial to an economic recovery because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the nation's total economic activity.
This is National Public Radio News from Washington.
Welcome.
I'm Jean Faraca.
This is the Ideas Network of Wisconsin Public Radio.
Have you ever stolen a book?
If the answer is yes, you may find yourself in good company.
On the other hand,
You may find yourself among the deranged and literary individuals who have exchanged the common pleasures of the nearly human for the collector's exalted and insatiate passion.
The passion for collecting books is documented richly in a book that is itself
What shall I say?
Covetable.
It's called A Gentle Madness, and it's by Nicholas Bestbanes.
Nicholas Bestbanes is former literary editor of the Worcester Sunday Telegram and now a nationally syndicated columnist.
He is the author of this beautiful book, A Gentle Madness, Bibliophiles, Bibliomains, and the Eternal Passion for Books.
He joins us by telephone from Massachusetts to talk about all this.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I have to share something with you.
Attached to my copy of your book was a little stick-on note that said, please save this book.
I want to keep it.
I love it.
That's wonderful.
Thank you.
Wonderful compliment.
Yes, indeed.
You claim in the book that if it weren't for those among us who are afflicted with this particular form of madness, we wouldn't really have the culture that we do.
I believe that to be true, not only at points during this century, but throughout history, the history of culture.
I think I discovered this dramatically during a visit
to the British Library, oh, it must be 10 years ago, and walking through that wonderful reading room of King George's, it's called King George's Library, and going up to what is known as English Literature, and seeing in that display case of nine items, five, fully five, that were preserved by a book collector, Sir Robert Cotton.
They included Beowulf, Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, Piers Plowman,
These are the only known copies of these precious artifacts, and they were preserved by a book collector.
And you see this dramatically in the British Library, and if you study, you'll find many, many other cases throughout history.
You'll find Poggio Bracciolini, for instance, during the period of humanism saving Quintilian, and you'll find even modest cases like Francis Parkman, the historian going south,
towards the end of the Civil War to preserve Confederate imprints.
So you just find many, many cases of this, of a collector who sees some value in preserving things, and for later generations to say, wow, we wouldn't have this stuff if it weren't for these collectors.
And what I tried to do is to document as many cases of these as I could.
What makes a book collector different from other kinds of collectors?
And what distinguishes this particular form of madness?
And how would you convince someone that it is, in fact, a form of madness?
Well, I think I use the phrase madness.
I hope the tongue is perceived to be placed firmly in my cheek.
On the other hand, in the case of somebody like Don Vincente... Exactly, of course.
There's no question that there are many examples of pathology.
I'm not a physician.
I'm not an M.D.
I certainly do see, however, some value in citing cases of excess.
But I think the key word in my subtitle is passion.
These people are passionate about books.
It is, as I point out, I think, the only hobby that has a disease named after it, which is bibliomania.
And I tried very hard to trace the origin of that word, and it goes back several hundred years.
I just don't see any other instance in stamp collecting or coin collecting or rock collecting or any other hobby that you can think of where it has reached such a degree over such a long period of time
where you actually have a disease named after it, and it has been written in several medical journals.
The Journal of the American Medical Association had an essay which I quote in my Chapter 1.
It's just different.
So are we going to see support groups for bibliomaniacs?
The problem, I think, is that those of us who recognize that we have this malady feel that we don't want any help.
I think that's one of the problems, is that perhaps you could treat it and...
and devise these support groups.
But all the people that I know who are afflicted with it are rather pleased to be so afflicted.
Are you a bibliomaniac?
I like to say that I'm on the cusp, but we have a quote early on.
The bibliomaniac is the slave of his books, the bibliophile, the master.
However, we also say you don't really ever know when you cross that line.
I have collected things all my life.
As every kid does, I guess.
I collected baseball cards and bottle caps and stones and rocks that I found at the beach.
Who knows?
But books did kind of take over 20, 25 years ago.
It was concurrent, I guess, with my getting this book editor's position in Massachusetts.
And as you know, of course, we
get all these review books, these wonderful books from publishers to read and to review.
One thing I did from the very beginning, I've always done perhaps as many as 900 author interviews over the last 18 years.
And from the very beginning, I always ask these authors to inscribe my books.
And so I have now, I guess, somewhere between 1,500 and 2,000 inscribed books by authors
that I've interviewed over the years, wonderful books, and it makes it kind of a unique collection.
And the inscription makes the book automatically more valuable?
I absolutely believe so.
There's one school of thought that says a book is more valuable if it's just signed by the author.
I tend to disagree.
I like something personal.
What's more valuable, a letter from somebody or a signature from someone?
I think if an author writes something personal in a book, it has more meaning.
Now, value, of course, is a
It's a personal thing.
I never collected any of these books with the idea or acquired any of these books with the idea that they would have a market value, a monetary value.
The value to me is personal.
However, a few of them I would also probably venture would have some value in the marketplace.
Well, what makes a book, in your view, desirable?
Scarcity, of course, number one.
The fact that it's desirable.
I once asked a bookseller from Quaritch in England why a particular copy of Don Quixote went up to close to $2 million at a sale when the pre-sale estimate was $600,000.
And he said, because you had two people who wanted one copy of a book, a book of which there was only one copy at that particular time.
Two people wanted one book.
Scarcity, desirability, significance, all these things, I guess, go into what makes a book valuable and desirable.
How many books do you own?
There are in the house, I guess.
We estimate 15,000 books, but it could be over that or it could be under, I don't know.
All of my books by no means are, I don't even really think that I have rare books per se.
I have books that are meaningful to me, books that I love and books that I use in my work.
I do write about
books and authors, and so I have a collection that is quite focused.
In fact, I think if you look at the bibliography of my book, A Gentle Madness, one of the subtexts here is that I think I own 95% of the books in the bibliography.
A passion for me while researching this book was to acquire as many books as I could about library formation, book collecting, the history of books in general,
all of these things.
And it wasn't enough for me just to read them.
You know, I think if I saw a beautiful book like Dibdin's Bibliomania, I had to have a copy of it.
Mm-hmm.
And so these are here, 15,000, I guess, give or take.
I know my older daughter did say to me once, Daddy, if we ever move to another house, can I have my own books in my room?
I mean, our books are all over the house.
I think there are something like 36 bookcases, which is actually 72 because they're double-shelved.
Do you know where everything is?
Believe it or not, I believe that I do.
And, of course, the next question always is, have you read all your books?
Well, that's impossible.
I would never ask you that.
But I think what Winston Churchill says, I quote it in Chapter 1, it's not necessary for a person to have read every book that he or she owns.
What is important is, number one, that you know what you have, you know how to lay your hands on it, and how it could help you when you need it.
And I think that's a pretty good rule of thumb.
I don't keep books that I'm not interested in any longer, that I have no expectation that I'll ever read or that can't help me in any way in my writing.
In this day and age, when it's possible to access the Library of Congress through one's personal computer, doesn't a collection such as yours lose its value and take on a sense of burden?
Well, to some sensibilities, perhaps.
Can you actually access the entire Library of Congress, however, by computer?
I don't know, as you can.
You certainly might be able to find out what titles they have there.
I know I can call Harvard University their online cataloging system, and I can certainly find out if they have a book there.
I don't believe I can access that text.
I'm not so sure that you ever will be able to do that.
I always think that there'll be a place for books.
I just can't believe that they're going to be replaced by computers.
I certainly hope not, not in my lifetime.
How does your personal library compare with that of, say, William Scheide?
Well, William Scheide, I think, is the only person in the book who has to be in the book.
Stephen Blumberg, for instance, the book thief,
who is the centerpiece of Chapter 13.
It's wonderful that he's in the book, but he wasn't even arrested until after I had signed a contract to write it.
He appeared, and he had to be in there.
However, a person like William Scheide, who is arguably the owner of the greatest private library in the world, and if you're going to write a book about the passion to collect books and significance, I think that
It behooves you to have a William Scheide in there, and he gets a chapter entirely to himself.
My collection, compared to his, I mean, it's... My collection, it's a library, it's a working writers, a journalist library that helps me, that pleases me, that gives me a great deal of pleasure.
But you're talking about a library that has a Gutenberg Bible, every major important printed book that you could possibly think of.
It's right there in Princeton, New Jersey.
It's the most extraordinary thing I certainly have ever seen that's privately owned.
About that Gutenberg Bible, he's quoted as saying, now one of the fun things I enjoy about this book very much is the hyphens, though the margins are wonderful, too.
You have to get the context of that.
He does say that, and I'm sure because you've read that.
You know he proceeds at that point to explain
why the hyphens are so wonderful.
Every page, this is a large folio.
This is the first book, or certainly one of the surviving copies of the first books ever printed with movable type.
And what's really amazing is that every page is two columns.
And no column on any page, and no page, ends in a hyphen.
And what amazes him, and when he points it out to anyone who is privileged enough to be sitting with him at this table,
is that page after page, column after column, you never see a word end in a hyphen.
And he says, how they managed to do this is a marvel to him.
And of course, then he goes on to the margins, because as you know, through history, books have been, many books have been rebound.
We know, of course, that the most valuable books are the books that are in their original bindings.
His Gutenberg Bible, which consists, by the way, of two volumes, the Old Testament and the New Testament, is in its original binding, and so therefore,
margins have never been trimmed.
They're huge, they're wide, and at the extreme side of each page, you'll see these, when he points them out to you, these little pinholes, and every page was pinned down by tacks on the press.
You can touch these, and you can touch where a sheet of paper was pinned to a press, and the first type bit into paper for the first time.
It's a
for me i was light-headed with this happened with every biblio file it's ineffable i can't i can't describe it
Well, but I'm going to probe a little bit here because I want to get a better sense myself, a more visceral sense of what you mean by that.
Is it the connection, the sensual connection with a moment in the past that was so significant to the history of books?
I think all of those things and more.
When he took this...
I think I described this moment briefly, but this Mr. Scheide is now about 80, I believe.
And, well, he was showing me around his library, which is attached, by the way, to Princeton University.
I suspect it's unique.
I don't know of any other Ivy League institution or any other institution, for that matter, that
that allows a private individual to construct his library as part of its own institutional library with no strings attached.
It's there.
What he chooses to do with it is something he will decide at some point.
In any case, he went to this vault that he has in his library, and he took out this big box, and he was lumbering over to the table with it, and I asked if I could help, and he said, no, no, you stay right there.
I didn't know what he had at that point, and when he opened the box,
There it was.
I knew instantly what he was showing me, and he wrapped it with his knuckles.
There was one volume of the Gutenberg Bible, and I absolutely felt weak.
He looked at me, and he said, it's on my tape.
I taped everything.
You can hear it.
He said, are you okay?
And I said, forgive me, sir.
I have the same as moment.
It was really quite a feeling, and I felt all sorts of things.
It was physical.
It was emotional.
It was intellectual, sensual, perhaps, as you suggested.
It was all of those things.
It was wonderful.
And you see this everywhere.
I mean, you have people describing the moment.
Sanford Berger out in California when he describes the first Kelmscott press book that he picked up and held.
And he said he still gets shivers.
He sweats.
He broke into a cold sweat the first time he picked up this book.
Carlton Lake down in Texas.
He describes a feeling.
He said he feels a message coming from the book.
through his fingers and up his arms, and he almost hears this voice saying, is it good, is it not good?
And I think any of your listeners out there who have feelings for books can empathize with us.
It just happens, and I don't know if I can describe it.
You're describing it beautifully, and it reminds me that people are really most alive through the things that they love.
I couldn't agree more.
And it's things, too.
There they are, inanimate.
Yeah.
So therefore... It's so funny that we think of things as inanimate when it's so obvious that we imbue them with life.
You know, I'm thinking here, that's it exactly.
They are inanimate, but they do have life.
And what's wonderful about them, and what's wonderful, I guess, about the cycle of collecting, which I've tried.
If there is a theme, it's the cycle in this book.
It's these books...
if they are taken care of properly with respect and with love and all these wonderful words, they go on.
We're merely custodians of them.
They are in our company for a while.
And then we pass them on from generation to generation.
Some go to institutions, others go to other owners.
But it's really a wonderful feeling for me.
I love my favorite places in the world.
Wherever I go, whatever city it might be in the United States,
i always seek out the secondhand bookstore uh... i'd love to go and and just find something old that's been kicking around and i love finding a book that i've never even heard of before i'd love traces of prior ownership i'd like to see a book plate or an inscription from an aunt to a to a niece at christmastime dated 1892 or whatever and you just feel these vibrations that
that these people say they feel, and I feel it, and if I can buy this book or acquire this book and it enters my library for a period, I really feel wonderful about it.
I hope I haven't gotten too discreet on the subject here.
It's positively erotic.
What can I say?
It's true.
I don't know if I'd use the word erotic, but it certainly is sensual, and you certainly acquire and develop a feeling for it.
And I'm not so sure it's innate either.
I don't know if it's passed on from generation to generation because you have so many cases where, I mean, I hate to be crude, but you'll have a person dead one day and barely resting in his grave where the heirs will be consigning these books off to the nearest auction house.
And you've had many instances of that even within the last five or ten years
where remarkable libraries never got beyond 12 months into the next generation and went off to the Sotheby's or Christie's or wherever.
I don't know if it's an innate thing, if it's an inherited thing.
I think, however, it is innate.
It's within the individual.
What's in a book?
A Gentle Madness, according to Nicholas Besbaines.
I'm sorry, perhaps I'm not... It's a tough name, but it's a Greek origin and...
which has, however, been anglicized to Baz Bain's, but you're doing very well with it.
bibliophiles, bibliomanes, that also rhymes with besbane, come to think of it, the eternal passion for books.
I've never heard it better described.
If you'd like to join us on the air, the number toll-free, 1-800-642-1234.
263-1890, that's your number if you're joining us from Madison or Milwaukee.
I'm Jean Faraka.
This is the Ideas Network of Wisconsin Public Radio.
If you appreciate hearing new ideas from a variety of viewpoints, then you'll enjoy the talk on the Ideas Network.
You'll find a wide array of interesting guests answering thoughtful questions from our hosts and from you.
We bring people and ideas together all week long on the Ideas Network of Wisconsin Public Radio.
Join in next hour with your questions about your pets.
Larry Mueller talks with UW Medicine Veterinarian from 11 till 1230.
We have a caller who joins us from Milwaukee.
Hello.
I'm calling to tell you I am so happy this man is speaking this morning.
I have been in the process of packing up as a way of de-singing my life.
a lot of items, including mostly books, to give to the Salvation Army.
And after hearing this man, I am unpacking the boxes.
It took me such emotional pain to even put these books in the box.
And when I heard him describe the very things that I've always felt about books, I thought to myself, why am I doing this?
Let my kids after me have the burden of getting rid of them.
I am, in my lifetime, in keeping them.
I also wanted to tell you, Jean, that your use of the word erotic
is really not quite it.
Books are orgasmic.
That is the real word.
That is the real word, and I'm so happy you have this gentleman on.
I could live with a man like that the rest of my life.
Well, one of the cute things that happens here periodically, as everyone has to do, we spring clean.
We decide.
Remember I said earlier, if there's a book that I've decided I can't,
or whatever.
And so we cull.
We go through the process of culling.
And as this lady has just said, give to the Salvation Army or one of the libraries.
But it's so funny.
With 15,000 books, I might be able to find six or eight that I'm willing to part with.
And then I will have terrible anxiety attacks.
I mean, I've actually given books away and gone out and bought the same copy again to get it back.
It's terrible.
I mean, you really hate to part with a book that you've enjoyed or
I have had some attachment with, good for you, keep your book.
Wonderful.
Okay, next.
By the way, what does this collection weigh, I wonder?
I do know that when we added a room to the house, which is the library I'm sitting in now, the building inspector did suggest that we had extra room.
I have no idea what it weighs, but if you recall, there's a cute little anecdote in Chapter 1 about this gentleman from Nebraska, Lincoln, who actually came in violation of the law because the load limit of his house was something like 10 times exceeded by 10 times the legal limits, and it was all books, and most of these books.
Now, by the way, to go back to an earlier theme, or at the University of Kansas,
That's the Fitzpatrick collection, considered by many to be junk, but today considered one of the great, great collections of science at the University of Kansas.
Next, we go to a caller from La Crosse.
Hello.
Hi.
I just have a couple questions.
First off, I picked up a book at a rummage sale not too long ago here entitled Swinton's Fifth Reader.
Yeah.
I bought it for my son because it contained some good literature.
And when I got it home, I realized that the copyright date was 1853.
Interesting.
And I was wondering where I can find out if there's any value attached to this book.
I would look in, first of all, is it a textbook, like a school textbook?
It looks like a school reader, like something they may have used in a grade school.
My sense initially, and again, I'm not a book dealer by any means, but generally speaking, old text, in terms of value, don't have much value.
You don't know whether or not it's a first printing or an eleventh printing or whatever.
You don't know that, do you?
What does it say?
But they were printed in the thousands, of course.
So even though it's an old book, it's not necessarily a scarce book.
Well, what I would do is check the Bibliography of American Literature to see if it's in there.
No, we're having trouble hearing you.
I wonder if I could ask you to speak up just a little bit.
That's much better.
I'm sorry.
I think there would be a number of bibliographical sources that you could check.
I would try BAL, the Bibliography of American Literature, see if it's in there under the author.
But my initial sense is that
where it's probably a textbook, that it probably does not have that much value.
But I certainly would not want to be held to that.
Okay.
Next, Middleton.
Go ahead.
Is it Middleton?
Yes, it is.
Hello.
I'm so glad that you have this guest and this show on.
I feel like I've been carrying the secret shame.
I'm the only one in my whole entire family who has a curse.
I've been working in publishing...
for the past ten years.
I love to make books.
But I wanted to tell you, I happen to think that it's something one's born with, and I think it's also related to a love of reading.
But for me, collecting books, I've thought about this a lot because I've moved so many times, and it's just I'm in the process of moving again, and it's an expensive venture to move books, and I do my moving myself.
I grew up in a little tiny village in western Wisconsin in the 60s, and we didn't have a library.
And the closest town that had a library to my town was 17 miles away, and the only way I could get books was by babysitting, which I started doing in fifth grade for 25 cents an hour.
And I read Little Women when I was about, I think, about 9 or 10.
I was so inspired by the book because Beth's neighbor...
I don't remember his name, but in the story, the neighbor had a library, and she would go there and get lost in the books.
And I resolved at that age that when I grew up, I was going to have a library.
And I do.
And I derive the same sort of comfort from it that you described, the same sort of pleasure.
You know, if I see a book that's thrown out in a recycling bin, I find it kind of painful.
And...
I guess I just want to close it off by saying that I really, really have a deep, deep reverence for books.
And I know that there are a lot of others out there.
And just, you know, it's an inexplicable kind of compulsion to love and collect books.
And it's really great to hear that there are more people out there and to hear the stories that people are saying, their anecdotes.
So thanks.
Thank you very much for that wonderful call.
It's interesting that my 11-year-old daughter just finished reading.
It took her about a month or six weeks, but she just finished reading Little Women, and she would not allow herself to watch the video of that wonderful movie until she'd finished it.
She said, Dad, 476 pages.
She said, It's the longest book I've ever read.
I said, Honey, I think that's a bigger book than many people, adults, have read.
I'm very proud of her, but...
Moving books, I think, has to be the most difficult, the most formidable thing that anybody could be faced with.
Gene, you mentioned earlier the weight of the books.
I mean, it's awesome.
I think when you think of how many boxes it might take to fill a library of 5,000 books or even 1,500 books.
Stephen Blumberg, the book thief, when they seized his books, 23,000, it was something like 879 books.
packing crates seventeen FBI agents it took them two days to remove these books from that house but this woman has just described moving often with a lot of books it's not an easy thing to do is that part of what